## Lab 2: Create a single-tenant ASP.NET web app

### Task 1: Create an ASP.NET web app project

1.  On the lab computer, start **Command Prompt**.

2.  From the command prompt, run the following commands to create and set the current directory to **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\06\\Starter\\OIDCClient**:

    ```cmd
    F:
    cd F:\Allfiles\Labs\06\Starter\OIDCClient
    ```

3.  Run the following commands to create a new .NET Core web app based on the Model View Controller (MVC) template (replace the placeholders `<application_ID>`, `<tenant_ID>`, and `<domain_Name>` with the corresponding values you recorded earlier in this lab):

    ```cmd
    dotnet new mvc --auth SingleOrg --client-id <application_ID> --tenant-id <tenant_ID> --domain <domain_Name>
    rmdir .\obj /S /Q
    ```

4.  Run the following command to start Visual Studio Code. 

    ```cmd
    code .
    ```
    > If you have been prompted **Do you trust the authors of all files in this folder?**, select **Yes, I trust the authors**.

5.  In the Visual Studio Code **Explorer** pane, review the autogenerated folder structure that represents an MVC web app.

6.  Navigate to the **Properties** folder, open the **launchSettings.json** file, and then apply the following changes:

    
    | Section | Property | Value |
    | -- | -- | -- |
    | **iisSettings** | **sslPort** | **44321** |
    | **OIDCClient**  | **applicationUrl** | `https://localhost:5001` |
    

    > **Note**: The port numbers must match the value you specified when creating the Azure AD app registration.

7.  Save and close the file.

8.  In the Visual Studio Code **Explorer** pane, select **OIDCClient.csproj**.

9.  Ensure that the value of `<TargetFramework>` element is set to **net6.0**.

10.  Ensure that version of the `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer` and `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect` NuGet packages is set to **6.0.9**.

11.  Set the version of the `Microsoft.Identity.Web` and `Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI` NuGet packages to **1.25.3**.

12.  Verify that the content of the **OIDCClient.csproj** file resembles the following listing (the value of the `UserSecretsId`will differ) and save the changes.

    ```csharp
    <Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk.Web">
      <PropertyGroup>
        <TargetFramework>net6.0</TargetFramework>
        <UserSecretsId>aspnet-OIDCClient-737DEB13-25D4-4C52-93C5-F485367E3C8C</UserSecretsId>
      </PropertyGroup>

      <ItemGroup>
        <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.JwtBearer" Version="6.0.9" NoWarn="NU1605" />
        <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect" Version="6.0.9" NoWarn="NU1605" />
        <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Identity.Web" Version="1.25.3" />
        <PackageReference Include="Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI" Version="1.25.3" />
      </ItemGroup>
    </Project>
    ```

13.  Close the **OIDCClient.csproj** file.

14.  Navigate to the **Views\Shared** folder, and then open the **_LoginPartial.cshtml** file.

15.  Verify that the `asp-area` attribute in each span element references `MicrosoftIdentity`, as in the following line:

    ```csharp
    <a class="nav-link text-dark" asp-area="MicrosoftIdentity" asp-controller="Account" asp-action="SignOut">Sign out</a>
    ```

16.  Close the file without making any changes.

17.  Open the file **appsettings.json** and review the content of the **AzureAd** object, including the following elements:

    | Element | Value |
    | -- | -- |
    | `Instance` | `https://login.microsoftonline.com/`|
    | `Domain` | Primary DNS domain of the Azure AD tenant associated with your Azure subscription |
    | `TenantId` | GUID of the Azure AD tenant |
    | `ClientId` | Application (client) ID of the application you registered in the Azure AD tenant |
    | `CallbackPath` | `/signin-oidc` |

18.  Close the file without making any changes.

19.  In the Visual Studio Code **Explorer** pane, select **Program.cs**.

20.  Verify that the file contains the following **using** directives:

    ```csharp
    using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Authentication.OpenIdConnect;
    using Microsoft.Identity.Web;
    using Microsoft.Identity.Web.UI;
    ```

21.  Verify that the file contains the following lines that add the relevant authentication services to the container:

    ```csharp
    builder.services.AddAuthentication(OpenIdConnectDefaults.AuthenticationScheme)
      .AddMicrosoftIdentityWebApp(Configuration.GetSection("AzureAd"));
    ```

22.  Verify that the file contains the following lines that add a controller and Razor pages for the accounts management:

    ```csharp
    builder.services.AddRazorPages()
      .AddMicrosoftIdentityUI();
    ```

23.  Save and close the file.

### Task 2: Test the single-tenant web app in a single-tenant scenario

1.  In the **Visual Studio Code** window, from its top menu bar, go to **Terminal** menu and select **New Terminal**.

2.  In the **Terminal** panel, the current path of current working directory should be **F:\Allfiles\Labs\06\Starter\OIDCClient**. Run the following commands to build the .NET web app:

    ```
    dotnet build
    ```

    > **Note**: If there are any build errors, review the files in the **Allfiles (F):\\Allfiles\\Labs\\06\\Solution\\OIDCClient** folder. Ignore any warning messages.

3.  Run the following command to generate a self-signed certificate and configure the local computer to trust it:

    ```
    dotnet dev-certs https --trust
    ```

4.  If prompted to install the autogenerated certificate, select **Yes**.

5.  From the terminal prompt, run the following command to run the .NET web app:

    ```
    dotnet run
    ```

6.  Start the Microsoft Edge browser in the **InPrivate** mode, and then navigate to the `https://localhost:5001` URL.

7.  If presented with the **Your connection isn't private** message, select **Advanced**, and then select the **Continue to localhost (unsafe)** link.

8.  In the open browser window, when prompted, authenticate by using the UPN of the **aad_lab_user1** Azure AD account you created earlier in this lab with **Pa55w.rd1234** as its password.

    > **Note**: If you are prompted with a **Help us protect your account** window, select **Skip for now**.

9.  The browser window will automatically open the **Permissions requested** webpage.

10.  Review the requested permissions, which include **View your basic profile** and **Maintain access to data you have given it access to**.

11.  Select **Accept**.

12.  Review the **Welcome** home page of the target site displayed by the browser and verify that the UPN of the **aad_user1** Azure AD account appears in the browser window.

13.  On the **Welcome** page, select **Sign out**.

14.  When prompted to select the account to sign out, select the **aad_lab_user1** Azure AD account. You'll be automatically redirected to the **Signed out** page.

15.  Close the Microsoft Edge browser.

## Review 

In this exercise, you implemented a single-tenant web app and tested it in a single-tenant Azure environment.